create intro database replication article (#208)
prisma/dataguide: content/10-managing-databases/04-database-replication/01-database-replication-introduction.mdx

Replicating data to local servers in the locations near to where it is being accessed, provides users with faster data access and queries. If a company had a single node in the USA, then an employee trying to pull data in Europe could experience latency when trying to access it. A company with a cluster in the USA as well as a replicated cluster in Europe would ensure that this employee can work efficiently with the data that they need when they need it.

### Enhance server performance

Database replication also reduces the load on the primary server of the database. If data was only able to be accessed on a single server, that server would be handling every request coming to the database. With replication, that load can be dispersed among other nodes in the distributed system. Because all of the nodes have identical replicas of the data, some queries could get handled by secondary nodes and leave the primary to handle only certain reads or only writes.

> Saving the primary for handling write operations can prove to be beneficial because if it were handling all reads and writes that may put immense strain on the processing power. This could make sense for a situation where there are not many operations coming in to the database. However, in times of scaling and growth, it is best practice to delegate tasks across a distributed system rather than putting all the load on a single node's plate.

Reviewer: I think something more generic than "processing power" would be helpful here.  Things like database connections, network bandwidth, memory usage, and disk I/O can also affect performance and be helped by replication. So maybe something like "...that may put unwanted strain on the server's resources." or something similar could work.

> Saving the primary for handling write operations can prove to be beneficial because if it were handling all reads and writes that may put immense strain on the processing power. This could make sense for a situation where there are not many operations coming in to the database. However, in times of scaling and growth, it is best practice to delegate tasks across a distributed system rather than putting all the load on a single node's plate.

Reviewer: The "This could make sense..." lead reads a bit ambiguously.  Like, I understand the intent of the sentence from context, but grammatically it makes me think that the "this" means "saving the primary for handling write operations", which is the opposite of what you're trying to say I think.

### Accomplish preparation for disaster recovery

> In the case of catastrophe, replication also secures recovery of what gets lost or corrupted. It facilitates recovery by maintaining accurate backups at well-monitored locations. If one node in the distribution goes down for any reason, there are nodes at the ready to help recover what was lost because of their identical replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of catastrophe, replication also gives you the tools you to recover data that may have otherwise been lost or corrupted. It facilitates recovery by maintaining accurate backups at well-monitored locations. If one node in the distribution goes down for any reason, there are nodes at the ready to help recover what was lost because of their identical replicas.
```

> In the case of catastrophe, replication also secures recovery of what gets lost or corrupted. It facilitates recovery by maintaining accurate backups at well-monitored locations. If one node in the distribution goes down for any reason, there are nodes at the ready to help recover what was lost because of their identical replicas.

Reviewer: I think you need to be very careful in how you approach this one if only because a replica in itself is not considered a backup.  In fact, the very fact that they continuously apply changes can mean they're susceptible to recreating any bad state that the primary server passes to them.  I think there's two parts of this that are very relevant though and that you can highlight.

Replicas are typically used as targets for backups.  So for instance, when you want to back up your data, you turn off replication briefly on one of your followers to get the data in a consistent state, back up the data when there are no more write operations incoming, and then restart replication to help it catch back up on new updates.  The replica was able to give you a snapshot of consistent data to target without interrupting operations (assuming there are other read replicas or that the master can be briefly used for reads during this interim time).

The other way that replication can aid in disaster recovery is if the replica is specifically configured as a lagging follower.  You can configure certain followers to delay applying operations from the replication log by a certain amount of time (15 minutes, an hour or two, etc.).  That way, for instance, if the primary suffers some corruption event that it immediately replicates to its real-time followers, if the team notices the problem before the delayed replica is configured to apply those same changes, they can turn off the replication and have a mostly up-to-date server ready and running that hasn't applied the corrupting events.

This adds a level of enhanced data protection that would not be present without.

### Improve analytics

Similar to the benefits mentioned from enhancing server performance, replication allows for the dedication of nodes specifically for analytics. By having exact replicas of data available outside of a single site/node, there is now the option to have a secondary that is specifically used only for running analytics on the data.

> This makes it so any nodes handling write operations or other heavy reads are not strained also by handling analytics queries from database users. For example, your analytics team that is pulling data to put together user growth reports for the past quarter will have a dedicated node to work with and not strain any of the core nodes. This improves the performance experienced by the analytics team as well as keeping unnecesary load off the primary — all with data that is completely the same and up to date.

Reviewer: Ooooh an em dash, my favorite :smile: A+

## Wrapping Up

Database replication is an important process to implement for a successful distributed data system. In this article we briefly introduced what database replication is and the benefits it adds to your new or already existing application.

> Database replication is not a one size fits all process, so it is important to know what benefits are most important to your team when configuring. We'll take the learned benefits and discuss in additional guides the most common datbase replication architectures, methods, and types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Database replication is not a one size fits all process, so it is important to know what benefits are most important to your team when configuring. We'll take the learned benefits and discuss the most common database replication architectures, methods, and types in additional guides. 
```
